Dear Will,

Thank you for the opportunity to resubmit our paper, “The Rise of
Reddit: How Social Media Affects Belief Formation and Price Discovery”
to the Management Science. We appreciate the time and effort you and the
referees have put into evaluating our work, and we are grateful for the
insightful and constructive comments. Following these comments, we
substantially revised our paper, and we are confident that the current
version is significantly improved.

Below, we present our detailed responses to your comments. For your
convenience, your original comments are in italics, and our responses
are in normal font.

I sent your paper to a leading economist as the AE who solicited reviews
from two experts on retail investor research, one focusing on theory and
the other on empirics. Unfortunately, while both referees appreciate the
theoretical grounding, the use of novel Reddit data, and the unified VAR
framework, they raise overlapping concerns. R1 explicitly recommends
rejection, and R2's assessment similarly implies rejection. Their
reports are thorough and highlight key issues regarding the
model-empirics disconnect: the weak return predictability of rational
investors in the data; ambiguities in the classification of investor
types; the unconvincing evidence of network spillovers; the absence of a
momentum-reversal pattern; and several alternative interpretations.
Note that both reviewers offer constructive suggestions, but the AE deem
them insufficient to fully resolve the core concerns. The AE worries
that the uncertainty about the paper’s ability to converge in the next
round is simply too large to warrant a revision request, and followed
the referees to recommend a rejection of the paper.

 

Response: Thanks for your valuable feedback. We have substantially
revised our draft to address the issues:

First, for weak return predictability, we address this issue in Section
4.2 and find that rational tone now significantly predicts future
returns, with predictive power comparable to that of naïve tone. Second,
for classification of investor types, by adopting the LLM which
incorporates users’ broader posting histories, we substantially improve
on the original classification. Empirical results discussed in Section
3.1 show that the revised classification better distinguishes investor
types and yields more consistent empirical patterns. Third, we present
evidence of network spillovers in Section 4.1, and show significant
group-level belief spillovers across different investor groups. Fourth,
for momentum-reversal patterns, our results in Section 4.5 illustrate
that returns associated with rational tone continue to accumulate over
longer horizons, whereas the initially positive return predictability
associated with naïve tone eventually reverses. Finally, we examine
alternative explanations in Section 5, and our main findings remain
robust across these alternative measures.

Detailed discussions of these revisions are also provided in our
point-by-point responses to the referees.

I have read the paper myself and find many aspects of it to like. I find
the findings plausible. More importantly, how social media shapes
beliefs constitute a core issue in asset pricing these days. I have
several thoughts/suggestions:

1. The AE communicated to me that unless you are prepared to engage more
deeply with the model, it may be more effective to use Pedersen (2022)
as a conceptual motivation for empirical tests, rather than positioning
the paper as a direct test of the model. I completely agree. I think you
should emphasize more the empirical aspects of your study.

Response: Thank you for your constructive comment. Following your
suggestion of “use Pedersen (2022) as a conceptual motivation for
empirical tests”, we revise the paper in abstract, Section 1, Section 2,
and Section 7 accordingly.

For abstract:

  “Motivated by Pedersen (2022), we use submission-level data from
  Reddit to examine how social interactions and user influence shape
  belief formation, price discovery, and trading dynamics.”

For the Section 1:

  “A useful organizing framework for our analysis is Pedersen (2022),
  who develops a model of belief formation, trading, and price dynamics
  in social networks.” (page 1)

  “Drawing on the conceptual foundation in Pedersen (2022), we begin our
  empirical investigation by collecting data from the social media
  platform Reddit from January 2020 through December 2025.” (page 2)

  “First, we identify distinct agent types in the social network by
  mapping the theoretical definitions in Pedersen (2022) to observed
  posting behavior using a large language model.” (page 6)

  “Second, inspired by the guiding framework in Pedersen (2022), we
  thoroughly examine the joint dynamics of investor beliefs, price
  formation, and trading behaviors of retail investors and short sellers
  in the social network.” (page 6)

Section 2 is currently renamed as “Conceptual Framework and Empirical
Implications”, and is revised as follows:

  “Pedersen (2022) provides a comprehensive theoretical foundation for
  understanding how social interactions shape investor beliefs, trading,
  and asset prices. We briefly summarize the features of the model most
  relevant to our setting and draw on its underlying economic mechanisms
  to motivate and organize our empirical analysis.” (page 6)

Section 7 is also revised:

  “Drawing on the theoretical insights in Pedersen (2022), we use data
  from Reddit to systematically examine how social network interactions
  relate to belief formation, asset prices, and trading behavior.” (page
  37)

 

2. Would it be possible to differentiate the type of social media
interactions? It makes a huge difference seeing an anonymous post versus
seeing Trump's tweets. You would need to uncover deeper insights and
more interesting patterns from the data to provide sufficient
contribution to the literature.

Response: Thanks very much for your very insightful comments.

Regarding your question of “a huge difference seeing an anonymous post
versus seeing Trump's tweets”, our take is that “anonymous posts” and
“Trump’s tweets” differ the most in their identity and celebrity status.
Therefore, we separate Reddit users into “celebrity group” and “other
group” and conduct empirical analysis to address your inspiring
question. We discuss this in section 5.4 on pages 33-34 and present the
results in Table 9:

  “Social media platforms often feature a small number of well-known
  posters whose content attracts disproportionate attention. Do the
  beliefs expressed by these prominent users have the same impact as
  those expressed by ordinary users, or do they play a disproportionate
  role in shaping subsequent market outcomes? To capture this
  heterogeneity, we separate Reddit users into celebrity users and
  others. As discussed in Section 5.2, PageRank captures a user’s
  centrality in the interaction network, thus we use it to identify the
  most prominent participants on the platform. Specifically, we define
  celebrity users as those whose average PageRank ranks above the weekly
  90th percentile. We then separately construct rational, fanatic, and
  naïve tone measures for celebrity users and all other users. We
  re-estimate the PVAR system with the separation of celebrity and other
  users, and report the results in Table 9. If network prominence
  amplifies the transmission and market impact of expressed beliefs, we
  expect celebrity-user tone to exhibit stronger predictive relations
  with subsequent market outcomes.

  The results suggest that the distinctive influence of celebrity users
  is most pronounced in returns and retail trading. A
  one-standard-deviation increase in celebrity rational, fanatic, and
  naïve tone predicts increases of 2 bps, 6 bps, and 3 bps in subsequent
  returns, compared with 1 bp, 2 bps, and 2 bps for other users. This
  implies that celebrity-user tone has stronger effects on market
  outcomes. The difference is even more pronounced for retail trading,
  where the corresponding effects are 0.19%, 0.66%, and 0.27% for
  celebrity rational, fanatic, and naïve users, compared with 0.16%,
  0.24%, and 0.15% for other users. These patterns suggest that network
  prominence primarily strengthens the extent to which expressed beliefs
  translate into subsequent prices and retail trading, especially for
  fanatic investors. One possible explanation is that more prominent
  users attract greater investor attention, which may amplify the
  salience of sentiment-driven fanatic views and make them more likely
  to trigger retail trading and be reflected in prices.[1]”

3. Can you relate the discussion to technological progress? Would the
emergence of competing platforms affect the results? I am just trying to
suggest something that would lend a good angle for contribution to the
literature, in addition to the prediction results. 

Response: Thank you very much for your helpful suggestions. Your comment
raises two important issues: “technological progress” and “the emergence
of competing platforms”.

For “technological progress”, our discussion is in Section 6.1 on pages
35-36 and the results are presented in Table 10:

  “Technological advances can fundamentally reshape the information
  environment by changing how information is produced, disseminated, and
  processed by investors. As reported by United Nations in 2025, there
  are several technological advances, such as AI, the Internet of things
  (IoT), big data, and blockchain over our sample period.[2] In
  particular, AI represents a salient technological shift: by late 2024,
  45% of U.S. adults had used generative AI (Bick, Blandin, and Deming,
  2026). Moreover, by reducing writing time by 40%, AI substantially
  lowers content-production costs, makes it especially relevant for
  social media platforms (Noy and Zhang, 2023). We therefore examine
  whether the predictive role of social-media communication changes with
  the emergence of generative AI. To capture this technological shift,
  we use November 30, 2022, the date of ChatGPT’s public release as a
  cutoff, and separately estimate the PVAR before and after this cutoff.
  We expect tone to become less predictive of returns after ChatGPT, as
  lower content-production costs may increase low-informativeness posts,
  while retail investors continue to respond to tone and short sellers
  trade against the resulting sentiment-driven demand.

  In Table 10, we find significant differences before and after release
  of ChatGPT for price discovery and short flows...For price discovery,
  agent tones predict future returns only before ChatGPT. For example,
  the coefficient on RationalTone (t-1) declines from 0.0014
  (t-stat=4.48) in the pre-ChatGPT period to 0.0009 (t-stat=1.02) in the
  post-ChatGPT period. Fanatic tone and naïve tone exhibit similar
  patterns. One possible explanation is that the lower cost of content
  production after ChatGPT increases the supply of less informative
  posts, thereby diluting the price-relevant information contained in
  agent tone. For trading dynamics, agent tones continue to positively
  predict retail flow in both periods, while their relation with short
  flow switches from negative before ChatGPT to positive afterward. For
  example, the coefficient on RationalTone (t-1) changes from -0.0260
  (t-stat=-3.17) in the pre-ChatGPT period to 0.0190 (t-stat=2.80) in
  the post-ChatGPT period. Similar changes are observed for fanatic tone
  and naïve tone. Intuitively, as the informational value of
  social-media content for asset prices weakens after ChatGPT, more
  sophisticated investors increasingly trade against the sentiment
  conveyed by online discussions.”

For “the emergence of competing platforms”, the detailed discussion is
in Section 6.2 on page 36-37 and the results are reported in Table 11:

  “Social-media platforms compete for investors’ limited attention, and
  the growing prominence of alternative platforms can reallocate where
  investors seek, produce, and exchange investment-related information.
  As competing platforms become more active, does Reddit become less
  influential in the transmission of investor beliefs? To capture this
  variation, we use the scaled monthly message series (maximum equals
  100) reported by Cookson et al. (2024) for StockTwits, X, and Seeking
  Alpha. Because the public data series are only available up to 2023,
  this analysis is restricted to the period from 2020 to 2023...We
  construct relative competing-platform activity as the sum of the
  scaled message measures for StockTwits, X, and Seeking Alpha divided
  by the corresponding sum for these three platforms and Reddit. We
  define periods of competing-platform emergence as periods in which
  this measure exceeds its 90th percentile...We then re-estimate the
  PVAR separately for emergence and other periods. If competing
  platforms divert investor attention away from Reddit, we expect the
  predictive relations between Reddit user tone and subsequent beliefs,
  returns, and trading to be weaker during emergence periods.

  Table 11 shows that the predictive relations of Reddit tone are
  substantially weaker during periods when competing platforms are more
  prominent. In the emergence periods, rational and fanatic tone exhibit
  little evidence of predicting subsequent naïve tone...This attenuation
  also extends to subsequent return and trading dynamics, with the
  weakening particularly pronounced for fanatic tone, suggesting that
  the market influence of fanatic beliefs depends more heavily on
  concentrated investor attention and interaction within Reddit. In
  contrast, during other periods, agent tones significantly predict
  subsequent naïve tone, returns, and retail trading and are strongly
  negatively related to future short selling. Overall, these results
  indicate that greater activity on competing platforms fragments
  investor attention across social media venues, thereby weakening the
  role of Reddit beliefs in subsequent belief formation and market
  outcomes.”

Overall, I think the concerns raised by the review team are substantial.
I encourage you to address them to your best effort. I am still
optimistic about the topic and would like to make an exception to invite
the paper for a reject-and-resubmit. What it means is that you would
need to thoroughly address the concerns, which probably makes the paper
almost a new paper, and then submit the paper as a fresh submission.
Please note that the journal does not offer reject-and-resubmit anymore
and this is an exception. So you would need to mention this in your
cover letter in the next submission. I can only promise to treat the
resubmitted paper as a fresh submission, but its conditional probability
of getting an R&R is no higher than any other new submissions. I would
totally understand should you decide to try alternative outlets. 

This is not the ideal outcome. But please note that we receive over
1,300 submissions a year and have to turn down many great papers, some
even without being sent to an AE. I hope the feedback is useful
nonetheless.

Response: We are grateful that you provide us the opportunity to
resubmit the draft. We also carefully go through all other specific
comments and suggestions from the two referees and have prepared
point-by-point responses to both referees. Please refer to the response
letters for more details.

Thanks so much for providing the opportunity for us to resubmit the
draft. We believe with the review team’s feedback and our extensive
work, the paper is significantly improved in terms of depth and breadth.

Looking forward to your response.

Best Regards,

Danqi, Charles, Siyang, Valerie and Xiaoyan

[1] We also construct a user-impact measure that captures heterogeneity
in users’ ability to attract attention, computed as the average number
of comments received by the user’s posts before that week. We find that
belief transmission, return predictability, more retail-trading, and
lower subsequent short selling are substantially stronger in the high
user impact sample.

[2] https://unctad.org/system/files/official-document/tir2025_en.pdf
